RESURRECTION ERTUGRUL
THE STORIES AND CHARACTERS DEPICTED
HERE WERE INSPIRED BY OUR HISTORY
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED DURING
THE FILMING OF THIS PRODUCTION.
Where do you come from and
where do you go?
We come from nowhere, to go anywhere.
What about you?
We are going to Aleppo.
Then you should always be alert.
Don’t become a hunt for
wolves and vultures.
The air here is very hazy.
Don’t be lost in the haze.
Will you grant me your name?
Ibn Arabi from Andalusia.
The time has come.
-Horses?
-Horses are ready.
I hid the saddles under the hay.
We will saddle up and go immediately.
There is no guard at the stable.
-Will you be able to endure it, father?
-We have to do this.
May you have a good journey.
May the sun not burn you.
May you don’t get cold.
May your feet don’t touch a stone.
May you go like water...
...return to your tribe like water.
Bamsi, is he asleep?
No, he is thinking of Halime Baci.
-Keep your voice down!
-Don’t talk to me like that.
Enough! Be quiet!
Go to sleep. Be quiet.
You should relax, Titus.
Before the sunrise,
we shall both get what we want.
To look down on the enemy
is for the stupid, Karatoygar.
No one can escape from
a well planned ambush, Titus.
No one.
I will deal with Wild Demir.
You finish the job quietly.
Come on.
Turgut!
The boy is dead.
Yigit Alp!
Let them go or I will kill you all.
Do you think we are stupid?
Get out of our way.
I thought I made myself clear. You either
let them go or I will kill you all.
I won’t. Get out of the way or
I will kill the girl.
This is my last warning! Let them go!
Yigit Alp. Yigit Alp!
Who are you?
Afsin.
And I am Deli.
Look at the scholar.
He fights well.
He may be a scholar but he is on fire!
My brother...
...how is your wound?
The tip is broken inside.
We should take it out immediately.
We cannot do it here. We should leave.
Others might come as well.
The arrow stops the blood.
We will cut it somewhere else.
This is all Karatoygar’s doing.
Let’s go.
KARATOYGAR INN.
You messed it all up!
First your knights...
...then my soldiers.
He killed them all like mosquitoes.
You and I made a very big mistake
by underestimating Ertugrul.
From now on never...
...never try to command me.
I will settle this issue my own way.
Not on my territory, Titus.
If Sultan Aladdin hears about it,
our plan would be ruined.
You said that you would settle this issue
and I obliged. But you messed up.
You let Ertugrul escape!
I will settle it my own way!
My door is always open for you, Titus.
But...
...I am saying it again,
if you go on a headhunt in my territory...
...you will lose your own heads.
What about in Aleppo?
What did you think? We have more skillful
servants than you in all the Muslim world.
And know this, Karatoygar...
...if you were not Ustad-i Azam’s dog,
I would have killed you long ago.
Look at the great Gundogdu.
Yes, you see, Selcan Hatun...
...they tame Gundogdu like this,
so you know.
You don’t get angry, you don’t build up
a rage, what is wrong with you, Gundogdu?
I am only waiting for
the right time, Hatun.
Thank God. Thank you as well.
May it be healthy.
What is on your mind?
Will you refrain from tell me as well?
Hatun, I was wronged when I was right.
Look, I also got punished for it as well.
I cannot digest this, Hatun.
When the time comes...
...the whole tribe will see
who Gundogdu is.
Don’t let your fury cloud
your judgment, please.
Selcan, winter is around the corner.
It is knocking on our door.
Karatoygar made his first move.
Won’t they say that Kayi could not even
protect their guests?
Won’t they? If it wasn’t for the trader’s
man, the guests would have been kidnapped.
-Do you know what this means?
-What does it mean, Gundogdu?
It means this tribe is not led.
It does not have a Bey, it has no one.
What will happen then?
If I am keeping quiet, if I am not tearing
everything apart, there is a reason.
Now I have to be patient.
Now let me work.
I told you to increase the security.
What did you do? Nothing.
Because of your incompetence,
the men of that dog infiltrated our camp.
My honor and the tribe’s honor
was violated.
-I took all measures for maximum security.
-Then how could they get in?
How?
They could not have done it
without help from inside, Bey.
What does this mean?
Is something like this possible, Kurdoglu?
There is no one in our tribe
who would stoop so low, Bey.
Your head of guard
is struggling to save himself.
He is so belittled that
he can’t even hear his own words.
You are not my head of guard anymore.
Gather all the guards on duty yesterday...
...and wait for my decision
on your punishment.
As you wish, Bey.
If Karatoygar has the nerve to raid
my tribe to kidnap our guests...
...I don’t know
what he would dare tomorrow.
Bey, give me permission to go
and talk with him once again.
What did you achieve last time?
He made a fool of you.
You still ask to go and talk with him.
He learned his lesson, Bey.
All the men he sent was killed.
Now, I can talk in a language
he can understand.
I know the language he would understand.
Load the bodies to horses
and send back to him.
From now on, we will talk the way
he would understand.
Bey, what can we do against
the great Seljuk army?
Don’t talk like the army is here,
Kurdoglu. It would take days for...
...Karatoygar to mobilize the army
in Erzincan and bring it here.
Anyhow, if Karatoygar didn’t have a hidden
agenda, he would have acted long ago.
He is violating the agreement I did
with the Sultan and acting on his own.
Actually, as a commander he has enough
experience to know that I would crush...
...his few hundred soldiers.
Then what?
The rest is up to Ertugrul’s success.
One way or another,
whatever our customs say shall prevail.
What will happen now, Akcakoca?
This will take away the pus of the wound.
It will enable him to recover quickly.
-Take this.
-If God permits. How is he?
This was not welcome before
he recovered fully but...
...there is no need to be afraid.
Do not worry.
The healing process will be delayed
for a few days, that’s all.
When you feel better, you should get up,
walk around a bit outside...
...it would do you good, alright?
Do not neglect to smear this ointment
on the wound three times a day.
-Thank you very much, Akcakoca.
-Alright, may God be on your side.
Thank you, Akcakoca.
Please do not try to get up.
I just came to wish you a speedy recovery.
Take these and feed your father well
so that he can get well quickly.
-I owe you not one, but three lives.
-There is no debt.
If you could grant me your name,
I would know the man I am thankful to.
Come close, young boy.
-What is this?
-This necklace belongs to your family.
To the Seljuk dynasty.
-Dogan, Bamsi, help him down.
-At once, Bey.
Come on, let us go.
My arm.
My arm is bleeding.
Dogan, Bamsi, fetch some wood.
Drink this.
He lost a lot of blood.
-Come on, brother, raise your head.
-Raise your head.
Ertugrul.
-What happened, son?
-We were attacked.
Didn’t I warn you to be careful and
say that the air is hazy around here.
Dervish, bring the saddlebag.
We need to stop the bleeding immediately.
Part of the arrow is inside,
we need to take it out first.
We can manage, with God’s help.
Who are they?
Be strong, my friend.
In the name of God. Come on.
-Hopefully he will live.
-Bamsi, don’t open your foreboding mouth.
Do not worry.
Fate protects a person from death.
I served under your little brother
Melik Rukneddin.
And my name is Semseddin Afsin Bey.
Your brother died in my arms.
The necklace belonged to him.
-You are Afsin Bey.
-That is correct, Shahzade.
I heard your name before.
You were a good commander.
-Thank you.
-But, how do I know that you are him?
That this is not a play
staged by Sultan Aladdin?
Afsin Bey,
why did you risk your life for us?
Your brother was my Shahzade.
But more importantly...
...your attitude toward Sultan Aladdin.
You did not engage in a power struggle.
You stayed loyal to the state.
You refrained from making moves
that would overshadow his successes.
You didn’t cast a shadow over Seljuk’s
bright days with an ambition of power.
That is why you deserve
the utmost respect, sir.
With your permission, I would like to
help you escape from Karatoygar.
How? It is obvious that someone
helped Karatoygar to get in.
Otherwise, they could not have
entered the camp so easily.
I don’t know who but
I know what he will do next.
Halime?
Than God. My God give you inner peace.
-Thank you, my girl.
-Please, sit.
I should not bother you, sir.
You should rest.
With your permission,
I will take Halime from you for a while.
Mother Hayme is worried about you,
she would like to ask her how you are.
Of course. The permission is yours.
Why did Mother Hayme
want to see me, Aykiz?
I really don’t know either.
But you don’t need to be cautious, Halime.
They are being punished
because of us, right?
They deserved the punishment they get.
Bey’s honor is our honor as well.
Come on now.
AMANOS MOUNTAINS.
TEMPLARS CASTLE.
The Muslims we killed
stirred up emotions as expected.
The whole Muslim world is in rage.
They will start attacking
the Christians soon.
Europe cannot sit back then.
Ustad-i Azam,
what will we do when they attack us?
We have limited number of
knights and soldiers.
We will attack them as well.
I forged up such an army, which no army
will be able to stand against.
From Palestine to Basra,
from Baghdad to Aleppo...
...everywhere will be covered
by the stench of burnt bodies.
The visitors you had been expecting
have arrived, sir.
Good.
Come now.
Let me show you my invincible army.
Son of a Bey should be like this.
Hamza.
I am paying the price of
being presumptuous, uncle. That is all.
-Good for you, my nephew.
-The ambush last night...
It was obvious that Karatoygar
would not back down.
Did you know about
the ambush beforehand, uncle?
Thank God we have a Bey’s son whom,
for his father, even suspects his uncle.
Moreover, he questions him while
looking into his eyes.
Our Bey has the same suspicions.
Our guests must be more precious
than we thought.
Come to my tent in the evening,
we will talk there.
We need to get rid of this problem before
trouble surrounds us from all sides.
May it be easy on you, Mother Hayme.
Do we have permission?
You do, my girl, you do. Come in.
Come and sit, my beautiful girls.
I am sorry for what happened.
Thank God no one was killed.
Thank God, Mother Hayme.
My father’s wound was uncalled for...
...while he was recovering
but thank God he was spared.
But why are these devil mongers
imposing you?
My father is a trader, when he was
transporting goods in the Mediterranean...
...we fell captive to the Crusaders.
They wanted to sell us to Karatoygar.
When you are dwelled in so much trouble,
don’t you have anyone to turn to?
Which tribe do you belong to?
-We are from Kinik tribe.
-So you are from Kinik tribe?
You carry the blood of the Bey
who founded the Seljuk state, is that so?
Well, which clan from the
Kinik tribe do you belong to?
-Do we have permission, Mother Hayme?
-Yes, you do. Come, my girl.
-Did you bring the drapes?
-I did, Mother.
The colors are faded.
What did you lack in material?
There is not enough grass due to famine.
We had to water down the dye.
We are doing all we can,
but this is the best we could do.
Did you try the leaves and
roots of dyer’s woad?
Our trader girl knows so much.
She learned so many things
as she traveled the seas and mountains...
...but she forgets that grass
don’t grow during famine.
If there was some, we would have used it.
Selcan is right, my girl.
We need to find another solution.
We don’t have much time left. We have
to go and sell these in the market...
...before we migrate but we don’t have
a single proper drape to sell.
Selcan, do your best.
You may leave.
Do not meddle in things
that does not concern you.
You are the dearest subjects
who will be going to God’s heaven.
You will find peace
in the compassionate embrace of Jesus.
You tasted death while alive...
...and now you will taste the peace of
redemption from all sins while you die.
Mario!
Rachel, my dear girl, you will find
the peace you seek in God’s heaven.
You know how much I trust your
intelligence and thus I gave you...
...the most difficult task.
Your task will be the Kayi Tribe.
Two knights of mine will accompany you.
My whole life was in unbearable pain, sir.
But my death will be...
...with the love of Jesus and honor.
My innocent lambs,
may you have a clear journey.
We did not understand your plan, sir.
Black death, my dear knight.
This small but powerful army
will spread the damnation of devil...
...all over the Muslim world.
Wait, stop there.
Do not worry. There is a way.
Come and sit here.
Look, my girl. Years ago one old woman
in the palace did something...
...to make the colors more vibrant.
The whole palace was surprised.
Even my late grandfather who was
the Sultan at the time was intrigued.
Everyone was against the poor woman. But
the colors on the drape were magnificent.
What did she do, father, tell me.
That is all. We set on the road from
Andalusia years ago and never looked back.
What made you leave your home, dervish?
A dream.
I am pursuing the divine call that made me
travel everywhere in the world for years.
-Is there a clan called Andalusia?
-Didn’t you ever hear of Andalusia?
-Never, brother.
-Really?
-Am I lying to you?
-Sometimes I wonder why you carry a head.
-Doesn’t it get too heavy?
-Leave me alone.
What about you, son?
Why are you going to Aleppo?
I was sent to Ameer El Aziz
as an ambassador.
-But we still couldn’t reach.
-You will, if God permits.
While his highness the Prophet and
his highness Abu Bakr was migrating...
...they took refuge in a cave.
The heretics were after them.
They found the tracks
that go inside the cave.
The companion of our Prophet, Abu Bakr
was anxious. Our Prophet said to him:
“Don’t you worry, Abu Bakr,
God is with us.”
There, a small spider weaved them
the most protective armor of all time.
So the real question is whether we made
God a companion to our road or not.
If we did, all doors would open,
all roads would finish.
If we did not,
our companion would be the devil.
-Peace be upon you.
-The devil!
-Shut your mouth.
-And peace be upon you!
And peace be upon you
We saw the fire and came.
Do we have permission?
Please join us at our humble dinner.
If Karatoygar attacked our camp so easily,
he must have a spy inside.
No one in Kayi Tribe would dare
to be a spy for Karatoygar.
What did you talk with Karatoygar?
I asked for some time,
to convince Suleyman Shah.
He attacked before the time was up.
We cannot even protect the people
who take refuge in us.
Old age made Suleyman Shah very weak.
The unity and solidarity
of the tribe is at risk, Gundogdu.
If we don’t act,
the great Kayi tribe will fall apart.
He is my father but the future
of the tribe is more important.
What do you have in mind?
I will wait for Ertugrul
to return from Aleppo.
If he comes back empty handed,
I will act immediately.
What about your father?
My father is my life and blood but
I would act accordingly to Oguz customs.
Oguz customs tell so much to those
who know how to listen.
We are on the road for days without food.
We were devastated.
But I thank God that
he put you on our way.
We can never know from where
the fortune would smile at us.
True. We can never know from where
the trouble will come either.
What is the matter?
Did something bad happen?
While our caravan was on the road,
the crusaders, those Templars attacked us.
They seize every opportunity
and attack everywhere.
Last time we met a regiment of crusaders.
We killed them all!
You did well.
Those crusaders, where did they get the
courage to wander in the Muslim territory?
I heard that those heretics
are preparing for a new crusade.
They mobilized the whole Christian world
to invade Jerusalem.
I heard that they killed all the important
rulers in the Muslim states one by one...
...and left their bodies in town squares.
So we will have a festival.
We will need to prepare a warm welcome.
You jest, Bey. How will this be?
Muslims only draw swords at each other.
-They kill each other.
-Don’t you worry.
God would bear a big warrior and
unite the whole world under his flag.
And his progeny would conquer
Constantinople, take Jerusalem...
...and serve Mecca and Medina.
If God permits, we shall fight under
the flag of that warrior.
If God permits.
I hope you are right, if God permits.
I hope He sends that warrior soon
so that we can find peace, if God permits.
I would like to know these valuable God
followers who shared their food with us.
I am...
...Ibn Arabi from Andalusia.
Ertugrul from Kayi Tribe.
Translation: Suzan Mıhladız